---
title: "Fall Plan"
date: 2020-08-01
permalink: /posts/2020/08/01/fall-plan/
---

Plan for GAANN Fellowship Fall 2020

## Plan
- Continue attending teaching seminars (ITCS 8665)
- Continue work on teaching philosophy
- Continue work on personal website
    - Update research directions once qualification has been passed
- Begin work on qualification exam paper (aiming to pass by end of Fall 2020 or very beginning of Spring 2021)
- Continue assisting teaching mentor for Intro to Machine Learning (6156)
    - Perform guest lectures in-class 
    - Hold TA office hours and help sessions
    - Continue to refine and work on development of course materials and labs 
    

For the Fall 2020 semester my main focus will be on practicing my guest lecturing in the Intro to Machine Learning (6156) class. These lectures will range anywhere from 20-30 minutes and cover topics relevant to the main lecture material. For instance, I plan on giving lectures that cover ideas students are struggling with and assisting them through coding examples and explanations. Additionally, I plan on give lectures that expand on ideas in the course material. For example, we cover reinforcement learning so I plan to talk about wider applications such as interactive reinforcement learning. 

Besides the guest lecturing I also plan to begin and hopefully my finish qualification exam by the end of Fall 2020 or beginning of Spring 2021.  As akin to prior semesters I will continue attending the teaching seminars and working on my teaching philosophy and website. Additionally, if the CTL seminars are available online I will be attending those as well. 